---
title: Tech Stack of an Online Course - Full Stack Deep Learning 2021
category: Notes
abstract: Deep dive into the technical stack of running an online cohort-based course in 2021.
comments: true
code: false
featured: false
---
Full Stack Deep Learning was taught Spring 2021 as a 16-week course at UC Berkeley with ~50 students, and a simultaneous online course, with thousands of people watching our lectures and a ~250-student cohort from all over the world participating syncrhonously.

Running this course was a lot of work, partly because it required a maddening number of tools.
In an effort to identify particularly problematic areas and potentially point the way to improvements, we describe our suite of tools here.

The narrative is split into four rough areas: Content, Distribution, Communication, and Assessment.

## Content

Content is the easiest area to explain.

[Josh Tobin](#) and I were the primary instructors, with [Pieter Abbeel](#) contributing the best lecture of the course -- Research Directions.
Each lecturer was responsible for creating their own content.

Both Josh and I have a highly visual slide style, making extensive use of builds to try to guide the student's eye around the slide.
We both used Apple Keynote to creat the slides.

I personally first created a rough outline of the lecture in any text editor, and played around with it until I was happy with the rough structure.
Then, I would create the same structure in Keynote, and start filling out slides, dumping a lot of images and other materials from my research into blank slides.
I would use the Light Table view to organize the slides, then switch back to working on individual slides, and then, eventually, it would be done.

The opportunity for improvement I see here 

## Distribution

How do people find out about the course, and how do they get enrolled if they want to take it?

### Announcement

**Newsletter**

We first announced the course to our newsletter subscribers using Mailchimp.

Mailchimp is a decent tool, but pricy for what it does!
At 16K subscribers, we are paying $185/month, and we don't even send a newsletter every month.

**Twitter**

A few days later, we announced the course publicly via our Twitter (https://twitter.com/full_stack_dl/status/1329477077733609480?s=20), sharing a link to a signup form.

Twitter is incredible for free publicity.
We've never paid for promoting our tweets, but we'd gladly pay some monthly fee for just generally better functionality.
There are so many directions to improve the product in, and it's a real shame that they only have a part-time CEO.

### Enrollment

Interested people would fill out a 



### Public Website

Google Docs

mkdocs

Github

### Berkeley Roster

Canvas

### Paid Course Website

Umso

Stripe

## Content

### Lecture Materials

Keynote 

Google Docs

## Grading

Gradescope

Google Sheets

## Communication

Slack

Mailchimp

Twitter

## Video

Zoom

Loom

Descript

Youtube

## Computing Environment

Google Colab